README.md, before:

# 42_Cloud-1

[Subject](https://cdn.intra.42.fr/pdf/pdf/147805/en.subject.pdf)

## Project

The VPS on `Vultr` is running on Ubuntu 20.04.1 LTS (GNU/Linux 5.4.0-42-generic x86_64) as required by the subject.
This VPS will be were the project will run, so the launch of everything can be done on the actual computer and
then it will be deployed on the VPS. 

Basically the goal of this project is to deploy a fully functionnal `Wordpress` instance on a `VPS` using `Docker` and `Ansible`.

### REQUIREMENTS

- Install Docker and docker-compose
```bash
sudo apt install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu focal stable"
sudo apt install docker-ce docker-compose
```

- Install Ansible (Configuration Management tool) 
```bash
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ansible/ansible
sudo apt update && sudo apt install ansible
```

`Ansible` use declarative push-based YAML code to automate the configuration of the server,
called `Playbooks`.

```yaml
## basic example of an Ansible playbook that installs and starts the Nginx web server on a group of remote servers
---
- name: Install and start Nginx
  hosts: web_servers
  become: yes  # Run tasks with sudo

  tasks:
    - name: Install Nginx
      apt:
        name: nginx
        state: present
      when: ansible_os_family == "Debian"

    - name: Install Nginx on RedHat-based systems
      yum:
        name: nginx
        state: present
      when: ansible_os_family == "RedHat"

    - name: Start and enable Nginx
      service:
        name: nginx
        state: started
        enabled: yes
```

```bash
# Run the playbook to install and start Nginx on the web_servers group
ansible-playbook deploy.yml

# Run the playbook on a remote server
ansible-playbook ./src/playbook/deploy.yml -i ./src/inventory/hosts --user root --ask-pass --ask-become-pass

# To connect to the remote servers and run commands
ansible -i src/inventory/hosts ubuntu -m ping --user root --ask-pass
```

### CONTAINERS

The Ansible playbook will deploy the following containers automatically:

- `Wordpress` (CMS) 
- `MySQL` (Database) 
- `PHPMyAdmin` (Database Management) 
- `Nginx` (Web Server)

and then i just need to setup `ssl` and `firewall` rules.

## How to run the project 

```bash
## launch the nix-shell
NIXPKGS_ALLOW_UNFREE=1 nix-shell flake.nix
```

```bash
make all
## or
cd src && vagrant up
## this will create an Ubuntu VM
ansible-playbook playbook/install_docker.yml #no need for other args since the everything is setup in ansible.cfg
ansible-playbook playbook/install_container.yml
ansible-playbook playbook/install_dns.yml
```

Access the wordpress website here : `https://bapasqui-cloud1.duckdns.org/`

### Some ressource for the project

- [Ansible tutorial: install Wordpress with Ansible playbook (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gxbj28ZoUbI)
- [Automate your Docker deployments with Ansible (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CQk9AOPh5pw)
- [This web UI for Ansible is so damn useful!(video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gxbj28ZoUbI)
- [Things I wish I knew about Ansible from day 1(video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gxbj28ZoUbI)
- [Automate EVERYTHING with Ansible! (Ansible for Beginners)(video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gxbj28ZoUbI)
- [Ansible docker(docs of a video)](https://github.com/christianlempa/videos/tree/main/ansible-and-docker)
- [Setup Caddy on docker](https://thriveread.com/caddy-reverse-proxy-server-docker-compose)

Commit message:

feat: update Makefile and Ansible playbooks to streamline container management, add DuckDNS deployment, and remove obsolete DNS setup

README.md, after:

# 42_Cloud-1

[Subject](https://cdn.intra.42.fr/pdf/pdf/147805/en.subject.pdf)

## Project

The VPS on `Vultr` is running on Ubuntu 20.04.1 LTS (GNU/Linux 5.4.0-42-generic x86_64) as required by the subject.
This VPS will be were the project will run, so the launch of everything can be done on the actual computer and
then it will be deployed on the VPS. 

Basically the goal of this project is to deploy a fully functionnal `Wordpress` instance on a `VPS` using `Docker` and `Ansible`.

### REQUIREMENTS

- Install Docker and docker-compose
```bash
sudo apt install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu focal stable"
sudo apt install docker-ce docker-compose
```

- Install Ansible (Configuration Management tool) 
```bash
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ansible/ansible
sudo apt update && sudo apt install ansible
```

`Ansible` use declarative push-based YAML code to automate the configuration of the server,
called `Playbooks`.

```yaml
## basic example of an Ansible playbook that installs and starts the Nginx web server on a group of remote servers
---
- name: Install and start Nginx
  hosts: web_servers
  become: yes  # Run tasks with sudo

  tasks:
    - name: Install Nginx
      apt:
        name: nginx
        state: present
      when: ansible_os_family == "Debian"

    - name: Install Nginx on RedHat-based systems
      yum:
        name: nginx
        state: present
      when: ansible_os_family == "RedHat"

    - name: Start and enable Nginx
      service:
        name: nginx
        state: started
        enabled: yes
```

```bash
# Run the playbook to install and start Nginx on the web_servers group
ansible-playbook deploy.yml

# Run the playbook on a remote server
ansible-playbook ./src/playbook/deploy.yml -i ./src/inventory/hosts --user root --ask-pass --ask-become-pass

# To connect to the remote servers and run commands
ansible -i src/inventory/hosts ubuntu -m ping --user root --ask-pass
```

### CONTAINERS

The Ansible playbook will deploy the following containers automatically:

- `Wordpress` (CMS) 
- `MySQL` (Database) 
- `PHPMyAdmin` (Database Management) 
- `Nginx` (Web Server)

and then i just need to setup `ssl` and `firewall` rules.

### To setup the ssh connection token

Get the .pub token of your computer and add it to `known_hosts` file on your server. 

Then you should be able to connect to your server without password,
then for Ansible, add your private_key (of your computer) to the .cfg
of Ansible in this field : 

```conf
## in my case this
private_key_file = ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

## How to run the project 

```bash
## launch the nix-shell
NIXPKGS_ALLOW_UNFREE=1 nix-shell flake.nix
```

```bash
make all
## or
cd src && vagrant up
## this will create an Ubuntu VM
ansible-playbook playbook/install_docker.yml #no need for other args since the everything is setup in ansible.cfg
ansible-playbook playbook/install_container.yml
ansible-playbook playbook/install_dns.yml
```

Access the wordpress website here : `http://bapasqui-cloud1.duckdns.org/`

### Some ressource for the project

- [Ansible tutorial: install Wordpress with Ansible playbook (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gxbj28ZoUbI)
- [Automate your Docker deployments with Ansible (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CQk9AOPh5pw)
- [This web UI for Ansible is so damn useful!(video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gxbj28ZoUbI)
- [Things I wish I knew about Ansible from day 1(video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gxbj28ZoUbI)
- [Automate EVERYTHING with Ansible! (Ansible for Beginners)(video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gxbj28ZoUbI)
- [Ansible docker(docs of a video)](https://github.com/christianlempa/videos/tree/main/ansible-and-docker)
- [Setup Caddy on docker](https://thriveread.com/caddy-reverse-proxy-server-docker-compose)
